The Statement of the Kashag on the Forty-Ninth Anniversary of the Tibetan Democracy Day

Today marks the
forty-ninth anniversary of His Holiness the Dalai Lama’s outstanding
efforts to transform the nature of Tibetan polity into a genuine
democracy. On this auspicious occasion, the Kashag — as a way of
expressing its immense gratitude to His Holiness for his gift of
democracy to us Tibetans — makes obeisance to him. The Kashag also
extends its affectionate greetings to the Tibetans inside and outside
Tibet; to the governments, parliaments, peoples and the Tibet support
groups who are supportive of Tibet and the Tibetans; as well as to all
the peace-loving people cross the globe. During the past 49
years, a great change — political, economic and social — has taken
place across the world, including in Tibet and China. Tibetan democracy
has also kept pace with this global trend for change and progressed
over the years. The highest organ of Tibetan democracy, the Tibetan
Parliament-in-Exile (TPiE), has been elected 14 times and the political
leadership or the Kalon Tripa twice by the general Tibetan populace
thus far. Hence, going by the conditions as set forth in the Charter of
the Tibetans in Exile, our democracy has today become complete both
institutionally and system wise. Moreover, the fact that the Tibetan
people at the grassroots level are now able to effectively participate
in all processes of democracy, including the periodical elections, has
become something that the peoples and communities across the world
covet. Particularly, during the preliminary opinion poll that was
conducted in 1996 as well as during the last year’s special meeting
convened under Article 59 of the charter, Tibetans at the grassroots
level freely exercised their individual freedoms to correctly determine
— without being swayed by hearsay — the short- and long-term
aspirations of the Tibetan people as a whole. This — being a clear
indication of the maturity of democratic culture among the Tibetan
people — has not only gone a long way in fulfilling the wishes of His
Holiness the Dalai Lama but it also serves as a source of great
encouragement for those of us in the leadership. The Kashag would like
to, therefore, express its sincere appreciation to all of the Tibetan
people for this. In order for us to attain greater heights
towards true democracy, these conditions are indispensable: education
of the people; intellectual freedom; awareness of and
understanding/tolerance among the various viewpoints, positions and
ideologies; wisdom to distinguish between what is right and what is
wrong by eschewing narrow parochialism, etc. Not only is it important
that these conditions be improved further but it is also all the more
important indeed to be able to choose institution over individuals and
duties over rights by judiciously applying the Buddhist concept of the
Four Reliances. In today’s time, the rate at which the
political, economical and societal changes taking place globally as
well as in Tibet and China, it is difficult to predict the future about
anything. Therefore, all the Tibetan people inside and outside Tibet
must tread cautiously so that we do not make mistakes and lose
opportunities. Last year, the Tibetan people inside Tibet,
even at the great risk to their lives and properties, took out a
peaceful protest and as a consequence, a large number of Tibetan people
had to undergo extreme torture and loss of property. No doubt their
sacrifices will not go in vain and will contribute greatly to the
realisation of the cause of Tibet. The Kashag would like to appeal to
all the Tibetans that it is important for us now to see to it that we
do not put the lives of common people in danger and also make every
possible effort not to create any differences and animosity between the
Chinese and Tibetan nationals. Under the guidance of His
Holiness the Dalai Lama, the Tibetan people in exile everywhere are not
only trying to improve understanding with the Chinese people but we
also express sympathy and support to people affected by natural
calamities wherever it may be. This is in accordance with the tenets of
the Buddha’s teaching as well as the very nature of the Tibetan people.
Last year, when earthquake hit China’s Sichuan province, the Tibetan
people in exile did everything they could in terms of offering prayers
and contributing to the relief efforts. Moreover, His Holiness the
Dalai Lama expressed his strong desire to visit the affected areas to
console and offer prayers but he could not visit due to the political
situation. Recently, when a typhoon hit Taiwan, His Holiness the Dalai
Lama immediately sent condolence message and offered prayers for the
victims and their families. Following the request made by the people of
Taiwan, His Holiness the Dalai Lama is now there, visiting the affected
areas and providing spiritual comfort to the people living in these
areas. The spiritual service he is conducting in Taiwan is not only
aimed at the wellbeing of all sentient beings but also at the
improvement of relations between the Chinese and Tibetan peoples.A
time has, now, come for the third generation young Tibetans in exile,
who are equipped with both traditional and modern education, to be able
to take up political responsibilities. The Kashag believes that they
will be more responsible than ever before in the political and
administrative affairs of our society. Finally, the Kashag
prays for the long life of His Holiness the Dalai Lama and the
spontaneous fulfilment of all his wishes. May the Tibetan people inside
and outside Tibet be reunited to enjoy the fruits of democratic
freedom! The Kashag2 September 2009N.B.   
This is the English translation of the Tibetan original. If there are
any discrepancies, please consider the Tibetan final and authoritative.

